I would like you to explain to us three concepts or three figures that are very important in
the world of entrepreneurship that I think our students have to know well, which are
an accelerator, a major builder and an incubator.
It is interesting that we know what each of them consists of, for whom, who can resort,
at what moment one must resort to another, what it contributes, etc.
I'm going to ask you questions, okay?
We start, if you like, with an accelerator.
Explain to us what an accelerator is.
I think that as most of our students know, accelerators are entities or companies that
help entrepreneurs, that is, they help startups to carry their project from a
phase, from a more initial phase to a slightly more advanced phase, that is, they usually
help them in the development of the project, they usually accelerate them, that is, they shorten
what in the real world they would have to do in many more months, in very few months,
thanks to providing them with a lot of resources and above all to connect them with investors.
I'm going to ask you, accelerating, is the concept clear?
At what time?
That is, I am an entrepreneur, I have a startup, at what time could I start to consider...
That an accelerator is a good option?
I believe that a startup or an entrepreneur should already have a team assembled, it does not have
to go to an accelerator to find a team, there it has to go with the team already made, it has
to go with the product launched, it does not have to go thinking about launching the product
within the acceleration program, but it has to go with the product launched
to the market.
Normally, in fact, it is advisable that the product market fit has already been made, that is,
that it has already fitted, that this product has a fit with the market and has some meaning,
and that what the accelerator is going to do is to see how it can scale it, that is, how
can it take advantage of the months of acceleration, which are months in which it will receive a lot
of impacts or help to scale the project, how can it achieve that the metrics
during those months of its business grow, that is, how can it find the growth engine
that makes it start to scale.
What does the accelerator provide?
The first thing that an accelerator provides is a physical space, that is, an acceleration
program is a face-to-face acceleration program.
There is also a variety that is virtual acceleration programs that do not have to happen face-to-face,
I think that most or the most recommended are face-to-face.
So, a physical space that you share with other projects that are inside the accelerator.
Normally, an accelerator accelerates between 5 and 10 projects at the same time.
In the United States there are very large accelerators, such as Y Combinator, which is the largest
in the world, which accelerates up to 100 projects simultaneously within the same building,
but the key is that you are going to be those 3, 4, even 6 months inside the same space
with other projects.
What else does the accelerator provide you?
It normally provides you with access to mentors who will participate throughout the acceleration
program, they will give you training, those mentors, and they will be available for you
to consult or help you with all the doubts you have with the business.
And the last thing that an accelerator provides, which I think is one of the fundamental things,
is the help to get investment.
That is, an accelerator invests or must invest in the beginning of the acceleration program,
that is, once you have been selected among all the companies that are appointed,
they have to invest a ticket.
In Spain, the truth is that the money that is invested in accelerators is usually quite small,
that is, there are accelerators that either do not invest or invest 5 or 10 thousand euros,
there are others that do invest 15, 25 thousand euros, even some that invest 40 to 100 thousand,
which are usually corporate accelerators that have a corporate behind them.
In other words, they really do dedicate resources, they dedicate a lot of resources because you
told me mentors, assistants, etc.
And then in some cases they help you with some money.
In other words, it is a little money, but they should allocate some economic resources.
The last thing that you, as an entrepreneur, the last thing that the accelerator provides you,
which is one of the fundamental things for which many entrepreneurs, many startups,
who join an acceleration program, is for what is called the investor day or the demo day.
That is like the big day of the accelerator, that is, after the entire acceleration process,
the last day that the projects have been growing within the accelerator and improving their metrics,
they make a pitch or a presentation in front of investors.
Then the accelerator summons all the investors that it has around it to come to that presentation,
because there are accelerators that can bring you 50 or 100 investors to see the presentations
and you as an entrepreneur will have 5 minutes to tell your project,
explain what you have achieved within the acceleration program,
how your metrics have improved and why you are the ideal project
among all those who present it for you to invest.
The good thing is that among the investors who go to an investor day or a demo day,
there are business angels who are investors on a personal basis, even investment funds.
You have a lot of players who can invest in you at that time.
And that may be the fundamental thing, that you have to be focused
to finish the acceleration program with a first round of investment.
I understand that during the acceleration program you have been provided with many resources,
but not so much in terms of money.
Of course, the financing of that growth to achieve those metrics
has to come from the startup itself.
I think the ideal thing is to propose, just according to what you say,
when a startup applies to an acceleration program or wants to enter an acceleration program,
the important thing is that it is well prepared.
It is not that the phase will be ideal, that is, that you come with the team,
that you have already launched the product, that that product has already fitted with the market,
but it is good that you go with some money.
It is not good to reach the acceleration program only with the money that the accelerator puts you,
but it is quite positive that you have already been able to do a round of Friend, Family and Fools,
that is, a first round that is usually called Pre-seed, that is, prior to the seed capital,
in which with the first 25,000 or 50,000 euros you can invest them during the acceleration program
to grow faster than the rest of the startups of the program.
A very important thing is that if you are in an acceleration program,
you do not only compete against your competitors in your market or against all startups in general,
but you have the startups of the acceleration program that also have the same goal as you,
which is to get investment at the end of the program.
So it is good that you differentiate yourself having some money that you have previously achieved.
One last question I have regarding an accelerator is what percentage of equity is left to the accelerator?
This is very variable, that is, in fact here I also explain to you that there are different types of accelerators,
there are public accelerators, which are usually accelerators linked to municipalities
or to different public entities, which usually do not have equity,
but for me, although it is important that the entrepreneur defends the equity of his startup well
and dilutes it as little as possible, but it is not positive when an accelerator does not have equity
because that means that it will not be involved with your project in the future.
Public accelerators have 0% equity, for example.
Then you have corporate accelerators, which are usually sponsored, sponsored
or even mounted directly by a corporate that puts the money and that usually sometimes
puts even significantly more money.
In this case, equity exists from... they are usually vertical accelerators of a single sector,
which is the sector in which that corporate is, and sometimes from nothing left of equity
until a 7, 8, 10% is left, and then there are private accelerators,
which are the majority and the most recommended.
In private accelerators, the main key is that they do invest money,
they do get more involved in the project, they do have an interest and they take a percentage.
The percentage of an accelerator usually oscillates between 5 and 15,
so very, very wide.
Perhaps the most common in Spain is between 7 and 10%.
Okay, perfect.
Okay? That would be a bit the range in which accelerators move.
Well, I think we already have the photo of what an accelerator is.
Let's go to the Venture Builder.
Okay.
Venture Builder is something radically different from an accelerator,
but let's say that they are players, that is, they are entities that are in the same sector, more or less.
A Venture Builder, the difference is that the protagonist is not the entrepreneur
or the startup that enters a Venture Builder.
A Venture Builder does not reach an entrepreneur with a project already developed, with an idea,
but a Venture Builder is the Venture Builder or that entity, that player,
the one who decides to develop their own projects or their own ideas.
And what it does is that it looks for entrepreneurs or intra-entrepreneurs
who want to carry them out.
And what it does is that those entrepreneurs are usually paid a salary
and the Venture Builder finances the party, that is, it finances the development of the project,
not only during the first months, but during the life of the startup,
at least during the first two years.
How much percentage, in this case, following the sequence of what we talked about before with the accelerators,
does a Venture Builder stay?
A Venture Builder always stays in the majority percentage of companies.
It is very different from an entrepreneur who wants to keep his majority percentage.
In this case, the majority percentage will be given to the Venture Builder
or rather, the Venture Builder will give him a very small percentage,
but normally, in return, he will be given a salary with which he will take less risk when it comes to entrepreneurship.
Examples of Venture Builders, for example,
are usually in the orbit of a successful entrepreneur
who has already succeeded in setting up a company
and who decides to set up this Venture Builder to support several projects simultaneously.
In Spain, for example, it is well known that Antai was set up by Miguel Vicente
and Gerard Olivier too.
Miguel Vicente had sold Let's Bonus and decided to set up Antai
to be able to set up several projects, promote them,
and they, as majority, finance the projects and get involved a lot in the companies.
In fact, usually a Venture Builder not only finances a company,
but also puts more resources, not only economically,
but many times he is in charge of the web development of the company's first phases,
sometimes he even invests in technological tools that he has previously developed.
That is, the projects that are inside the Venture Builder,
as they are for much longer and are owned by the Venture Builder,
are more synergistic with each other and share more resources in common.
It is very common, for example, in a Venture Builder,
that a same service CTO has two companies
and not that there is a company with its own CTO.
I think it is an intra-entrepreneurial model.
Well, basically this is, someone has made a success,
has earned a lot of money and what he wants is to continue creating companies,
create a Venture Builder that, let's say, includes, that launches many projects,
the talent, he hires it in some way,
what happens is that those entrepreneurs are given a percentage of equity,
which I don't know how much it will be.
Well, I think it depends a little, that is, it is always in minorities,
that is, to give an example, a Venture Builder can stay from 51% to 60-70%.
In Spain we have, as I said, Antay, there is also Nucleo,
there is Sonar Ventures, there is another series of Venture Builders.
At the world level, the best known is Rocket Internet,
which is possibly one of the largest players in world-wide entrepreneurship,
which is listed with more than 3 billion euros of capitalization in the stock market.
And therefore, if they stay between 51% and 70%,
then the entrepreneurs will have that other 30-40%.
And if that 30-40% is distributed between 2, 3, 4 co-founders,
then each co-founder can have between 5 and 15%.
That is, the percentage is lower for the entrepreneur,
that 5-15% of what he could have if he sets up his own company and enters a Venture Builder.
The risk is a thousand times lower, the support he receives is gigantic, there are synergies, etc.
It is not comparable, they are two totally different models.
What happens is that it is very important that an entrepreneur knows what he is heading.
Ok, let's go with incubators.
Ok, incubators, for me, are a different model from the previous ones.
I think it is a hybrid between both.
In this case, Demium, which is my company, is a startup incubator.
Here, the projects enter an initial phase within the incubator,
let's say it would be a phase almost zero, or even from zero,
unlike accelerators, which, as we said before,
entered after the Product Market Feed,
already with a first round of investment of Friend, Family and Pools closed,
and with the goal of scaling.
Here, incubator projects enter the most initial moment.
What can an entrepreneur look for in an accelerator?
An entrepreneur in an accelerator, what he is usually looking for is
to access a methodology that cuts the time that has to pass in the initial phases,
he usually wants to access a series of mentors,
as was the case before we talked about the accelerator.
Usually, the incubator has a dedicated team that works with the projects.
That dedicated team, in our case, we are 15 people in the Demium team,
because we are in Valencia, Madrid and Barcelona,
and therefore we have a team that is dedicated in the three headquarters
working full-time with the projects,
and usually there is a slightly higher level of involvement than with the accelerators.
Less projects are worked in parallel,
but perhaps the difference, as I said before,
a hybrid and the difference with a Venture Builder
is that the percentage is majority of the entrepreneur.
That is, the incubator has a minority percentage.
In our case, our percentage is 15%,
but there are other incubators that even reach up to 25% of the capital,
but always in the minority, not just a Venture Builder.
So, apart from a methodology of advising,
of a team that helps you develop or advises you to develop the project,
they usually help you get investment,
it is rarer that an incubator invests you from the moment zero,
but usually they invest you at the end of the incubation program,
because unlike accelerators,
in accelerators the projects are already a little more marked,
more developed,
in incubators we are talking about entrepreneurs arriving with a PowerPoint,
or even, as in our case in Demium,
they arrive to look for co-founders for their project
and to develop the idea from scratch.
Therefore, investing from the moment one,
the day zero, would be a lot of risk,
so it is normal to invest at the end of the incubation program.
So, the financing of the search for the product market fit,
etc., that is done by the entrepreneur.
That is, the financing of being inside an incubator
is usually done by the entrepreneur.
Here there is no salary, as in Venture Builder,
because in Venture Builder they give you a salary
and therefore you do not take so much risk,
and you do not have an initial investment from day one
with which you can finance growth,
as is the case with the accelerator,
you do not have to go through the first phase on your own
before entering the accelerator.
Here you come into a shared space with other projects...
You open the offices...
At the end you provide offices,
you provide those resources of advice, mentoring,
a training program,
in our case we do a very intensive training program
of 100 hours for 16 weeks
to give it all the training layer it needs
before launching its product to the market,
that is, those 16 weeks are prior to the launch of the product to the market.
I think the most important thing is to understand
in which phase each one enters.
An incubator would enter phase 0
from the moment an idea or a team begins to exist
that wants to start working on a project,
an accelerator would enter the next phase,
that is, when the product is already launched in the market
and what the project wants is to scale.
Therefore, the investment must enter
at the end of the incubation process
or at the beginning of the acceleration process.
That would be the intersection point.
If you go to a Venture Builder,
what it covers is from the beginning,
from the zero moment of the idea,
because the idea is set by the Venture Builder,
the team configuration, everything,
and the company is usually financed
for at least two years,
sometimes even for the rest of the company's life.
One last question,
in incubators, who sets the idea?
That depends a lot on the incubators.
For example, in Spain
there is an incubator called Incubio,
where the idea is usually brought by the entrepreneur,
there are many other incubators
where the entrepreneur goes with his own idea.
In our case, in Demium,
it is Demium together with the entrepreneur,
once the team is set up,
we look for the idea together.
That is, what we do is that we look for
a business idea with the entrepreneur
that is based on a trend that is successful in another market.
Our model, Demium's,
also exists in other countries,
it is very similar, or in a simultaneous way
other players have also emerged in other countries,
for example, in the UK
there is a player called Entrepreneur First,
which is also a model where
ideas are sought within the incubator,
that is, once you are inside the incubation program,
you arrive at the incubation program
with the intention of undertaking,
but still without carrying an idea under your arm,
that is, with the intention that in the first month
you dedicate it to identifying what is the business opportunity
that you most deserve to bet on.